<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="DARS_217.7405">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2">
      <ph props="autonumber">217.7405</ph> Plans and reports.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="UZGHTB" outputclass="Normal">(S-90) <i>Processing.</i> The PL2 Contract Policy &amp;
         Operations Division will track the processing of UCAs from providing a UCA Tracking Number
         to reviewing the final negotiated agreement, at all dollar values. UCAs valued at greater
         than $5M will be reported to the Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting (see <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars" scope="external">
            <u>DFARS</u>
         </xref>
         <ph> </ph> 217.7405 &amp; <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfarspgi" scope="external">
            <u>DFARS PGI</u>
         </xref>
         <xref format="html" href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/pgi_htm/PGI217_74.htm" scope="external"> 217.7405</xref>) in accordance with the DISA Consolidated UCA
         Management Plan. Contract data shall be maintained in the format required by the
         spreadsheet referenced in <xref format="html" href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/pgi_htm/PGI217_74.htm" scope="external">
            <u>DFARS PGI</u>
         </xref> 217.7405(2)(ii). PL2 will track approval of the UCA by the HCA, and upon approval,
         retain a copy of the approved UCA Request for Approval and the UCA D&amp;Fs to complete the
         bi-annual report.</p>
      <p id="MTDBpC" outputclass="Normal">(S-91) <i>Review.</i> The contracting officer shall obtain
         a review of the proposed profit/fee from <xref format="mailto" href="mailto:disa.scott.ditco.mbx.cost-and-pricing-branch-pl842@mail.mil" scope="external">
            <u>PL842, Cost and Pricing Branch</u>
         </xref>
         <ph>
            <u>.</u>
         </ph> A UCA Tracking Number shall be obtained from <xref format="mailto" href="mailto:disa.meade.PLD.mbx.pl21-policy-branch@mail.mil" scope="external">
            <u>PL21, Contract Policy Branch</u>
         </xref>
         <ph>
            <u>.</u>
         </ph> A compliance review of the final negotiated agreement shall be obtained from the
            <xref format="mailto" href="mailto:disa.meade.PLD.mbx.pl22-policy-compliance-review@mail.mil" scope="external">
            <u>PL22, Contract Operations Branch</u>
         </xref> prior to definitization.</p>
      <p id="EnyrII" outputclass="Normal">(S-92) <i>Management Plan (D&amp;F)</i>. All UCAs are
         required to adhere to the ‘Consolidated UCA Management Plan’ required by DFARS PGI
         217.7405(2)(i). Before entering into any UCA, Contracting Officers shall obtain HCA
         approval (see DARS 217.7404-1). Prior to definitization, Contracting Officers shall satisfy
         the requirements of the UCA Management Plan by executing a D&amp;F for HCA approval, (which
         shall be maintained in the contract file. The D&amp;F template is located in DARS PGI
         217.7405(S-91).</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
