<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DARS_5801_602_3">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5801.602-3</ph> Ratification of
Unauthorized Commitments</title>
      <conbody>
        <p id="Toc45291386" outputclass="List1">(a) Definitions.</p>
        <p>
            <i>Ratifying Official.</i> Ratifying Official as used here
means the Senior Procurement Executive, (SPE) or the Head of the
Contracting Activity (HCA), as specified in (b)(2) below.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(b)(2) The ratifying official for all DISA unauthorized
commitments (UC) of any dollar value and non-DISA UCs valued at or
above $1M is the SPE. The ratifying official for all non-DISA UCs
valued below $1M is the HCA. Coordination of the ratification
request shall flow from the individual that made the unauthorized
commitment as follows: 1) Cognizant contracting officer to prepare
the Determination and Findings portion of the Ratification Approval
Form, 2) General Counsel for a legal opinion, 3) DITCO HCO for
review and concurrence and 4) PS22 for review and processing. PS22
will log the complete package into the PS22 Ratification Log,
assign a tracking number, review the package to provide any
findings or comments to the contracting officer, and coordinate the
final package for submission to the ratifying official for
approval. The CoCO will notify the HCA when an UC has occurred, to
include Center/Directorate/Division and D-Code, individual who
committed the UC, dollar value, and the general facts of the UC.
The HCA will notify the cognizant Center/Directorate SES(s).</p>
        <p>(S-90) For all offices aligned under DISA, to include ADCON
offices, the individual who made the UC serves as the Action
Officer for the ratification request and prepares the package using
the PSD Request for ‘Approval of Unauthorized
Commitment’ form, to include documents specified to be
provided to develop a complete record of the UC. If the individual
who committed the UC is no longer available for any reason (e.g.,
left government service, retirement, on extend leave) then the next
person in the individual's chain-of-command within the organization
is responsible for requesting the ratification, completing the
Approval of Unauthorized Commitment form, and providing all
required information and evidence to the Contracting Officer. For
external offices, the individual who made the UC serves as the
Action Officer for the ratification request and prepares the
package or an individual within the chain-of-command.</p>

        <p>The Ratification Approval Form and further guidance regarding
ratification of unauthorized commitments is located in the <xref format="html"
                  href="https://dod365.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/disa-PL2/SitePages/Corporate-Library.aspx"
                  scope="external">DARS
PGI</xref> 5801.602-3.</p>
        <p>(S-91) Timelines for Processing Ratification Packages can be
found in DARS PGI 5801.602-3(b)(2)(S-91)</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
