<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DARS_5801_170">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5801.170</ph> Peer Reviews</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>DOD Peer Reviews.</i>
        </p>

        <p outputclass="List2">(1)(i) <i>Preaward peer reviews for competitive
procurements</i>. Per <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/USA001283-21-DPC.pdf"
                  scope="external">
               <u>Class
Deviation 2021-O00107</u>

            </xref>, Defense Pricing and Contracting
(DPC) will conduct preaward peer reviews for competitive
procurements with an estimated value of $1 billion or more for all
procurements under major defense acquisition programs for which the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
(USD(A&amp;S)) is the milestone decision authority. Additionally,
preaward peer reviews of competitive procurements will be conducted
for procurements designated by USD(A&amp;S) as requiring a peer
review, regardless of value. DPC-led peer reviews may be requested
for acquisitions valued below the $1 billion threshold and will be
conducted upon approval by the Director, Contract Policy. DoD
policy for peer reviews was established by the memorandum
“Peer Reviews of Contracts for Supplies and Services,”
dated September 29, 2008, available at <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/USA000820-08-DPAP.pdf"
                  scope="external">
               <u>https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/USA000820-08-DPAP.pdf</u>
            </xref>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(ii) <i>Preaward peer reviews for</i>
            <i>noncompetitive
procurements.</i> Per Class Deviation 2021-O0007, Preaward Peer
Reviews will be conducted for DISA noncompetitive procurements
valued at $1 billion or more or for any other contract action
designated by the USD(A&amp;S) as requiring a peer review,
regardless of value. DPC-led peer reviews may be requested for
contract actions valued below the $1 billion threshold and will be
conducted upon approval by the Director, Price, Cost and
Finance.</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(iii) <i>Postaward peer reviews for</i>

            <i>acquisition of
services valued at $1 billion or more</i>.  Per Class Deviation 2021-O0007, DPC will not conduct postaward peer reviews
for acquisitions of services with a total estimated value greater
than $1 billion as required by DFARS 201.170(a)(1)(iii).</p>
        <p>
            <i>(b) Component (DISA) peer reviews (if a DPC Peer Review is
not conducted).</i>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Preaward peer reviews for competitive procurements
valued at $500 million or more and noncompetitive procurements
valued at $500 million or more but less than $1 billion</i>. The
DISA Contracting Peer Review/Independent Management Review Program
establishes policy and procedures for conducting peer reviews of
all solicitations with a total estimated contract value (including
options) of $500 million or more.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Preaward peer reviews for procurements valued below $500
million.</i> CoCOs are encouraged to request inter-DITCO and
intra-DITCO pre-solicitation peer reviews below $500M. Inter-DITCO
peer reviews will be managed by PS22. Intra-DITCO peer reviews will
be managed by the respective CoCO and results will be provided to
PS22 (for tracking the conduct of the review and trends).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Postaward peer reviews of all contracts for services
valued at less than $1 billion.</i>
        </p>
        <p>(S-90) <i>Independent management reviews for</i>
            <i>contracts
for services valued at $500 million or more</i>. The DISA
Contracting Peer Review/Independent Management Review Program
establishes policy and procedures for conducting independent
management reviews of all contracts for services with a total
estimated contract value (including options) of $500 million or
more in accordance with section 808 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Pub. L. 110-181).</p>

        <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Objective.</i> The objective of the DISA Contracting
Peer Review/Independent Management Review Program is to (1) ensure
that contracting officer across the Procurement Services
Directorate (PSD) are implementing law, policy and regulations in a
consistent and accurate manner; (2) improve the quality of
acquisition and contracting processes across DISA; and (3) share
best practices and lessons learned. The findings and
recommendations of the peer reviews/independent management reviews
are advisory in nature, providing supplemental information to the
contracting officer regarding acquisition strategy, contract
structure, format, content, and compliance. The procedures are
established in accordance with <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/USA001283-21-DPC.pdf"
                  scope="external">
               <u>Class
Deviation 2021-O0007 - Peer Reviews of Acquisitions for Supplies
and Services</u>
            </xref> dated June 25, 2021.</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(i) Pre-award Peer Reviews of solicitations shall be conducted
for procurements ($500M or above, but less than $1B) prior to
issuance of the solicitation (pre-solicitation).</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Independent Management Reviews of
contracts for services shall be conducted at the following decision
points:</p>
        <p outputclass="List4">(A) Mid-point of the initial (base) performance period if in
excess of three years; and</p>
        <p outputclass="List4">(B) Prior to exercising the first option period of performance
and every other option period thereafter (e.g., OP1, OP3, OP5).</p>
        <p>All peer review/independent management review documentation
shall be marked as “Source Selection Information – see
FAR 2.101 and 3.104”.</p>
        <p id="Toc351646714"/>
        <p id="T7_1">
            <b>Table 1-1</b>
            
            <b>Peer Review/Independent Management
Review Thresholds</b>
        </p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
               <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.5*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.9*"/>
               <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.7*"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Procurement Type</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Dollar Threshold*</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Reviewer</b>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Preaward Competitive</entry>
                     <entry>≥$500M</entry>
                     <entry>DISA</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Preaward Competitive under major defense acquisition programs
when USD(A&amp;S) is MDA</entry>
                     <entry>≥$1B</entry>
                     <entry>DPC</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Preaward Noncompetitive</entry>
                     <entry>≥$1B</entry>
                     <entry>DPC</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Preaward Noncompetitive</entry>
                     <entry>≥$500M to $1B</entry>
                     <entry>DISA</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Independent management reviews for contracts for services</entry>
                     <entry>≥$500M</entry>
                     <entry>DISA</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>*Note: See DARS 5801.170 for additional reviews that may be
accomplished under these dollar thresholds.</p>
        <p>(S-91) <i>Peer Review Timelines/Procurement Action Lead Times
(PALT)</i>. See DARS PGI.</p>
        <p>(S-92) <i>Waivers.</i> If critical mission performance
circumstances necessitate the request of a waiver, a “Request
for Peer Review/Independent Management Review Waiver” can be
found at
https://dod365.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/disa-PL2/Other/Forms/AllItems.aspx?id=%2Fsites%2Fdisa%2DPL2%2FOther%2FPeer%20Review%20Procedures%20and%20Documents&amp;viewid=723ed1cb%2D84a7%2D4619%2D971b%2D209a81bfe782.</p>
        <p>(S-93) <i>Procedures.</i> See DARS PGI.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
