<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="DARS_5801_9001" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5801.9001</ph> Procurement Management
Reviews (PMR) and Special Interest Reviews</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) Chief, Contract Operations Branch (PS22) will establish and
maintain DISA’s Procurement Management Review (PMR) program,
conduct Special Interest Reviews, and assist the Agency with other
reviews as appropriate. PMRs assist the Head of the Contracting
Activity (HCA) and the DISA Senior Procurement Executive, in
evaluating DISA’s procurement processes, including the DISA
Purchase Card Program. PMRs also assist the CoCO and the HCO to
improve the operational efficiency and effectiveness of their
contracting organizations. This is accomplished through the
assessment of internal management controls and acquisition policies
and procedures. Additionally, the results of the PMRs are used to
assess the Agency’s ability to sustain external scrutiny such
as DoD Inspector General (DoDIG) Audits, General Accountability
Office (GAO) Audits, external PMRs, and other independent
reviews.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)(i) PMRs are conducted at the four Defense Information
Technology Contracting Organizations (DITCO):</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) DITCO-National Capital Region (NCR)</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) DITCO-Europe</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) DITCO-Pacific</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) DITCO-Scott</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Contract Management Reviews (CMR) are conducted at two
external organizations:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) WHCA (White House Communications Agency)</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) CMCA (Communications Management and Control Activity)</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) PMRs and CMRs will be conducted IAW the PSD PMR Standard
Operating Procedure. The HCA is the final decision authority for
PMR/CMR observations, findings and recommendations.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Special Interest Reviews are conducted at the request of the
HCA or the SPE. These reviews assess specific aspects of the
procurement process and/or operations, as requested.</p></conbody></concept></dita>