<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="DARS_5802_101" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5802.101</ph> Definitions</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p id="Toc45291368" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Acquisition.</i> Acquisition as used in
this supplement has the same meaning as stated in FAR 2.101.
Acquisition begins at the point when agency needs are established
and ends with contract closeout.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Agency.</i> This term means DISA.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Agency Head.</i>Agency Head means, when
designated by the DISA Director, the Executive Deputy Director, of
the Assistant to the Director, except where law or regulations
specify the Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting (DPC).</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Chief of the Contracting Office
(CoCO).</i>CoCO means the individual(s)
responsible for managing the contracting branch(es) within a DITCO
or DITCO Component. The CoCO serves as a business advisor to the
HCA and HCO, and provides oversight, guidance and management of the
entire contracting process for all branches within a DITCO or DITCO
Component.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Activity.</i> This term refers to DISA’s
contracting organization, the Defense Information Technology
Contracting Organization (DITCO).</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contracting Office.</i>This term refers to
the Defense Capabilities Contracting Office (PLA), DITCO-Europe
(EUR) (PL5), the DITCO- National Capital Region (NCR) (PL6),
DITCO-Pacific (PAC) (PL7), DITCO-Scott Telecommunications
Contracting Division (PL82), DITCO-Scott Information Technology
Contracting Division (PL83), and DITCO-Scott Emerging Technology,
Special Interest Contracts and Pricing Division (PL84).</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract
value.</i>
        </p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) For indefinite term telecommunications services contracts (i.e., month-to-month) the contract value is the total non-recurring charge (NRC), plus the monthly recurring charge (MRC) times the estimated service life (in months). </p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) For definite term contracts, the contract value is the base value of the contract, including all priced option periods.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The total estimated contract value is the base value of the contract plus all evaluated options. The total estimated contract value does not include the value of the 6-month option period to extend services in accordance with FAR 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services (if used in the contract action). </p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) The DITCO fee is not included in the contract value calculation.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Head of the Contracting Activity
(HCA).</i>Procurement Services
Executive/Director, Defense Information Technology Contracting
Organization (PSD/DITCO), as delegated in writing by the DISA
Director.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Note 1: In the HCA’s absence or upon the vacancy of the
HCA position, the Vice Procurement Services Executive (PSE) will
perform the functions of the HCA, DISA. In the absence or vacancy
of the Vice PSE position, the PSD Deputy Director will perform the
functions of the HCA, DISA. Further, the Chief, Defense Information
Technology Contracting Organization (DITCO)-Scott will perform the
functions of the HCA, DISA, if such functions cannot be performed
by the PSE, or other potential delegates, due to a Continuity of
Operations (COOP) emergency event. The PSE will resume the role of
HCA as expeditiously as possible. All delegates are authorized to
perform only those HCA functions that they are eligible to perform
by law or regulation.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Note 2: The following officials, in the order listed, shall act
as and perform the functions and duties of Director, Procurement
Services Executive (PSE)/Director, Defense Information Technology
Contracting Organization (DITCO) during any periods in which the
PSE/Director, DITCO has resigned or is otherwise becomes unable to
perform the duties of the office of the PSE/Director DITCO:</p><p class="- topic/p ">Vice, PSE</p><p class="- topic/p ">Deputy Director</p><p class="- topic/p ">DITCO-Scott</p><p class="- topic/p ">DITCO-NCR</p><p class="- topic/p ">DITCO-Pacific</p><p class="- topic/p ">DITCO-Europe</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Head of the Contracting Office
(HCO).</i>The PSD Deputy Director is the HCO for
the contracting field offices at DITCO-Europe (PL5), DITCO-PLA
(DCCO), DITCO-NCR (PL6), and DITCO-Pacific (PL7). The Chief of the
DITCO-Scott Field Site is the HCO for the DITCO-Scott
Telecommunications Contracting Division (PL82), DITCO-Scott
Information Technology Contracting Division (PL83), and DITCO-Scott
Emerging Technology, Special Interest Contracts and Pricing (PL84).
The HCO has direct managerial responsibility for the assigned
CoCOs. The HCO will typically approve actions that exceed the
CoCO’s authority and will review specified contractual
actions to ensure statutory, regulatory, and procedural
compliance.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Note: For specific actions see DARS PGI 5802.101</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Ordering Officer.</i>A DISA employee with
the authority to enter into and administer contract orders not to
exceed $25,000.00 for orders against existing GSA schedules,
Government contracts, or contract vehicles established under FAR
Part 8 or FAR Part 16 procedures, as long as contract terms permit
and orders are within monetary limitations specified in the
contract.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Purchase Request (PR).</i>The authority to
obtain supplies/services on behalf of the requirements office.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Senior Procurement Executive (SPE).</i> The DISA Senior
Procurement Executive (SPE) is the Assistant to the Director, DISA.
The HCA is designated by the DISA Director to serve as the SPE in
limited circumstances where the Assistant to the Director is
unavailable due to temporary duty travel, leave or similar
circumstances where the SPE does not have communication capability
with the Agency. The authority shall not be further
re-delegated.</p></conbody></concept></dita>