<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="DARS_5806_303_1" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5806.303-1</ph> Requirements</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p id="Toc45291394" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The Technical and Requirement certification may be accomplished by the same certifying official on the OTFAOC Justification.</p><p class="- topic/p ">(S-90) The requirements office, in close coordination with the
contracting officer, shall develop the Justification for OTFAOC
using the required format located in <xref format="html" href="https://dod365.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/disa-PL2/SitePages/Corporate-Library.aspx" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">DARS
PGI</xref> 5806.303-1(S-90). Templates are updated periodically,
therefore a new template must be used for each new J&amp;A.</p><p class="- topic/p ">(S-91) The approval level shall be determined by the estimated
total value of the class. For each acquisition covered by a Class
J&amp;A, the contract file must include a copy of the Class J&amp;A
with signature page, or a statement referring to its location. Only
one statutory and associated regulatory authority is permissible to
support a Class J&amp;A.</p><p class="- topic/p ">(S-92) Class J&amp;As: Legal Counsel review/coordination is
required on all Justifications for OTFAOC over $750K prior to
approval by the approving official. The contracting officer can
request legal review for justifications at $750K or below.
Procedures for signatures and approvals are located at <xref format="html" href="https://dod365.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/disa-PL2/SitePages/Corporate-Library.aspx" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">DARS
PGI</xref> 5806.303-1(S-90)(b).</p><p class="- topic/p ">Legal reviews will be conducted within four (4) business days.
PACA/ACA reviews will be conducted within three (3) business
days.</p><p class="- topic/p ">(S-93) An amendment to an approved J&amp;A is required if, prior
to award of the contract, the approved J&amp;A contents change in
any of the following areas:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The dollar value changes (increases) prior to award but remains within the original approving official approval level;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The dollar value of the prospective contract results in a change of the approving official;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) The competitive strategy; or,</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) Requirements that affect the basis for the justification.</p><p class="- topic/p ">If paragraph (1) applies, a new signature page will be routed to
the approving official. If paragraphs (2), (3) or (4) apply, a new
signature page will be routed in accordance with (S-92).</p><p class="- topic/p ">(S-94) A modification to an approved J&amp;A is required if,
after the award of the contract, the value of the contract will
increase above the value of the J&amp;A.</p><p class="- topic/p ">The approving official for a modification to an approved J&amp;A
shall be based on the value of the modification alone, except if
processed within six (6) months of an awarded contract action,
which shall then be the cumulative dollar amount.</p><p class="- topic/p ">If the cumulative value requires a higher approving
official’s signature, a new signature page will be routed
through the initial approving official to the new approving
official.</p><p class="- topic/p ">(S-95) Determining contract value.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Proposed out-of-scope contract modifications and new
task/delivery orders require a new OTFAOC J&amp;A. The estimated
value of the proposed out-of-scope contract modification or new
task/delivery order J&amp;A shall be based on the value of the
modification or new task/delivery order requirement alone, and not
a cumulative contract value, except if processed within six (6)
months of an awarded contract action, which shall then be the
cumulative dollar amount.</p><p class="- topic/p ">If the cumulative value requires a higher approving
official’s signature, a new signature page will be routed
through the initial approving official to the new approving
official.</p></conbody></concept></dita>