<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DARS_5817_202_90">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5817.202-90</ph> Use of Surge Options</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a) Definition. Optional CLIN that can be exercised unilaterally
for an increase in quantity of support for the task areas
previously defined in the PWS/SOO/SOW.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(b) General.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) When surge is contemplated, the contracting officer shall
prepare a determination for the surge amount prior to releasing the
RFP or RFQ. The determination can be added to the Determination for
Use of Options template.</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(i) Approval up to 50% is the contracting officer.</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Approval 50% and over is the CoCO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(2) The surge CLIN shall be numbered as 9999 with a contract
type of cost reimbursement not- to-exceed. The following language
may be used as the description for CLIN 9999:</p>
        <p>“Optional surge support in accordance with DITCO Special
Contract Requirement H6 – OPTION TO EXERCISE SURGE SUPPORT
AND/OR OPTIONAL TASKS/LINE ITEMS.”</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(3) The surge option should be exercised unilaterally to the
maximum extent possible; however, can be exercised bilaterally if
negotiations are required.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(4) The amount of any new CLIN or amount added to an existing
CLIN that implements surge will be equal to the decrement of the
not-to-exceed amount of CLIN 9999. Description for the surge CLIN
should state “Surge of Task Area # with a period of
performance from</p>
        <p>to .”.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
