<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DARS_5832_703_90">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5832.703-90</ph> Solicitations Issued
Without Funding</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a) A Request for Proposal (RFP) or Request for Quotation (RFQ)
may be released, for DISA internal mission partners only,
conditioned on the availability of funds, only when paragraphs (1)
or (2) below apply.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) When the resulting contract is to be funded by Procurement
or Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Appropriations, and
the program/requirement has been included in the President’s
budget as submitted to Congress. In these instances, the program
manager shall provide the contracting officer a written statement
(coordinated with J8 (OCFO)) that these funds will be used for the
proposed acquisition and although not presently available, a
reasonable expectation exists that funding will be authorized and
available upon enactment of the Authorization and/or Appropriations
Acts.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contract Specialists/Contracting Officers shall require DISA
Mission Partners to submit a commitment letter to release a
solicitation prior to the funds being available. The commitment
letter is in DARS PGI 5832.703-90(a)(2) and shall be signed by the
Program Management Representative and the J8 (OCFO) representative
who has been officially delegated authority to obligate funds and
to certify the availability of funds for payment/obligation. The
commitment letter shall certify that the program has sufficient
funding within its budget to fund all non-optional contract line
items (CLINs) based on the IGCE. If the estimated value of
non-optional CLINs increases after the original approval of the
commitment letter, the Program shall provide a new commitment
letter with J8 (OCFO) approval. The new commitment letter shall be
provided to the Contract Specialist/Contracting Officer.</p>
        <p>**NOTE: If there are issues with the Program Management
Representative signing, notify the Program Management
Representative’s chain of command.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(b) Solicitations for such contracts may be issued so long as
potential offerors are apprised that although no funds are
currently available to award the contract, the PMO and FAM have
provided written assertion that the requirement is legitimate and
funds have been programmed or committed it will be funded.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contracting Officer shall include FAR 52.232-18,
Availability of Funds, in all solicitations issued without funding
under the authority of DARS 5832.703-90.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
