<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"><concept id="DARS_5833_103" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5833.103</ph> Protests to the Agency</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)(4) When an agency protest is denied, an offeror may request
an independent review by the Chief of the Contracting Office (CoCO)
and/or the Head of the Contracting Office (HCO).</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f)(1) The approving official for the
justification/determination is the Head of the Contracting Activity
(HCA). Approval requests shall be forwarded to the HCA
electronically, coordinated through the CoCO, HCO, legal counsel,
and the OSBP if the protester is a small business. See DARS PGI
5801.9003 for routing procedures.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) The approving official for the justification/determination
is the HCA. Approval requests shall be forwarded to the HCA
electronically, coordinated through the CoCO, HCO, local legal
counsel, and the OSBP if the protester is a small business. See
DARS PGI 5801.9003 for routing procedures. <xref format="html" href="https://www.ditco.disa.mil/DITCOContractingTemplates/" scope="external" class="- topic/xref "/>
        </p><p class="- topic/p ">(S-90) Upon receipt of a protest, the contracting officer shall
immediately advise the CoCO, HCO, and legal counsel. The written
decision shall be sent to the protester by certified mail or by any
other means that provides evidence of receipt. The decision, with
all supporting documentation, shall be coordinated with legal
counsel. If the protest involves competition, coordination shall
also include the Agency Competition Advocate. Supporting
documentation should, as a minimum, include the following:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The protest;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The offer submitted by the protesting offeror;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) The offer which is being considered for award or which is being protested;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) The solicitation, including relevant attachments;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5) The price/cost analysis or abstract of offers;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6) Any other documents relevant to the protest;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(7) A statement signed by the contracting officer setting forth findings, actions, and recommendations; and</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(8) Any additional evidence or information deemed necessary in determining the validity of the protest.</p></conbody></concept></dita>