<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DARS_5801_603_1">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5801.603-1</ph> General</title>
      <conbody>
        <p id="Toc45291387">Authority for
selection, appointment, and terminate an appointment for
contracting officers is</p>
        <p>delegated to the DISA Head of the Contracting Activity
(HCA).</p>
        <p>(S-90) The types of contracting officer appointments are
described in Table 1-3:</p>
        <p>
            <b>Table 1-3 Contracting Officer Appointments and
Requirements</b>
        </p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="5">
               <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.1*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.6*"/>
               <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.8*"/>
               <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.1*"/>
               <colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" colwidth="1.5*"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Type of Appointment</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Amount</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Training Qualifications</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Assessment Requirements</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>SF 1402 Statement</b>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Communications Management &amp; Control Activity (CMCA)</entry>
                     <entry>$25K / $100K</entry>
                     <entry>CON 237</entry>
                     <entry>None</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Contract authority is limited to</p>
                        <p>$25,000 for any contract action for information technology
services and equipment in support of the US Secret Service, the
Office of the Secretary of Defense, and Office of Special Events.
During Presidential Election years, from 1 April through 30
November, this contract authority is increased to $100,000.</p>
                        <p>Termination authority is limited to the amount of contract
authority.</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Closeout</entry>
                     <entry>SAT</entry>
                     <entry>CON 1100V</entry>
                     <entry>- 1 year experience in contracting.</entry>
                     <entry>Contract authority is limited to contract closeout actions up to
the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (SAT). No termination
authority is granted.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Closeout</entry>
                     <entry>Varies up to $25M</entry>
                     <entry>DAWIA Contracting Professional Certification</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- 2 years experience in contracting.</p>
                        <p>- Passing of 30 question “Contracting Officer Appointment
Test”.</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>Contract authority is limited to contract closeout actions up to
$xxx,xxx. No termination authority is granted.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>White House Communications Agency (WHCA)</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Varies up to</p>
                        <p>$6.5M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>DAWIA Contracting Professional Certification</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- 2 years experience in contracting.</p>
                        <p>- Passing of 30 question “Contracting Officer Appointment
Test”.</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Contract authority is limited to</p>
                        <p>$xxx,xxx for any contract action; except, contract authority is
$xxx,xxx for orders issued against existing Government contracts or
contracts established under FAR Part 8 and Part 16 procedures. No
authority to contract for telecommunications services that are
usage based, including monthly recurring charges, or are subject to
regulatory tariffs is included.</p>
                        <p>Termination authority is limited to the amount of contract
authority.</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Limited</entry>
                     <entry>SAT</entry>
                     <entry>CON 1100V</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- 1 years experience in contracting.</p>
                        <p>-Passing of 30 question “Contracting Officer Appointment
Test”.</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>Contract authority is limited contract actions up to the
Simplified Acquisition Threshold (SAT). Termination authority is
limited to the amount of contract authority.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Limited</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>$1M,</p>
                        <p>$5M,</p>
                        <p>$10M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>DAWIA Contracting Professional Certification</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- 2 years experience in contracting.</p>
                        <p>- Passing of 30 question “Contracting Officer Appointment
Test”.</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Contract authority is limited to</p>
                        <p>$xxx,xxx for any contract action. Termination authority is
limited to the amount of contract authority.</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Limited</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>$25M,</p>
                        <p>$50M,</p>
                        <p>$100M,</p>
                        <p>$250M,</p>
                        <p>$500M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>DAWIA Contracting Professional Certification</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- 2 years experience in contracting.</p>
                        <p>- Passing of 50 question “Contracting Officer Appointment
Test”.</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Contract authority is limited to</p>
                        <p>$xxx,xxx for any contract action. Termination authority is
limited to the amount of contract authority.</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Unlimited</entry>
                     <entry>Unlimited</entry>
                     <entry>DAWIA Contracting Professional Certification</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- 4 years experience in contracting.</p>
                        <p>- Passing of a “Contracting Officer Appointment
Test” (either 30, 40 or 50 questions; if the applicant has
never taken the Contracting Officer Appointment Test, the applicant
must pass a 50-question test)</p>
                        <p>-Passing a “Contracting Officer Appointment Review
Board”.</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>No limitations.</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>(S-91) <i>Waivers.</i> The HCA may waive warrant requirements
on a case-by-case basis.</p>
        <p>(S-92) <i>Type of Assessments.</i> The types of assessments
are described in Table 1-3 and below. It is the responsibility of a
candidate’s supervisory chain, CoCO and HCO to ensure a
candidate is prepared for each of the three requirements.</p>
        <p>
            <b>Table 1-4 Contracting Officer Assessment
Requirements</b>
        </p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.1*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.9*"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Type of Assessment</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Required For</b>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>1. Years Experience in Contracting.</entry>
                     <entry>All warrants; see Table 1-2 for exceptions</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>2. Contracting Officer Appointment Test</entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>All warrants; see Table 1-2 for</p>
                        <p>number of questions and exceptions</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>3. Contracting Officer Appointment Review Board</entry>
                     <entry>Unlimited warrants</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>

        <p>(S-93) <i>Contracting Officer Appointment Procedures</i>. The
procedures for this section can be found at <xref format="html"
                  href="https://dod365.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/disa-PL2/SitePages/Corporate-Library.aspx"
                  scope="external">
               <u>https://dod365.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/disa-PL2/SitePages/Corporate-Library.aspx</u>
            </xref>.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
