<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DARS_5817_7405">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5817.7405</ph> Plans and Reports</title>
      <conbody>

        <p>(S-90) <i>Processing.</i> The PS2 Contract Policy &amp;
Operations Division will track the processing of UCAs from
providing a UCA Tracking Number to reviewing the final negotiated
agreement, at all dollar values. UCAs valued at greater than $5M
will be reported to the Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting
(see <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars"
                  scope="external">
               <u>DFARS</u>
            </xref>217.7405 &amp; <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfarspgi"
                  scope="external">
               <u>DFARS PGI</u>
            </xref>
            <xref format="html"
                  href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/pgi_htm/PGI217_74.htm#217.7405"
                  scope="external">217.7405</xref>) in accordance with the DISA
Consolidated UCA Management Plan. Contract data shall be maintained
in the format required by the spreadsheet referenced in <xref format="html"
                  href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/pgi_htm/PGI217_74.htm#217.7405"
                  scope="external">
               <u>DFARS
PGI</u>
            </xref> 217.7405(2)(ii). PS2 will track approval of the UCA by
the HCA, and upon approval, retain a copy of the approved UCA
Request for Approval and the UCA D&amp;Fs to complete the bi-annual
report.</p>

        <p>(S-91) <i>Review.</i> The contracting officer shall obtain a
review of the proposed profit/fee from <xref format="html"
                  href="mailto:disa.scott.ditco.mbx.cost-and-pricing-branch-ps842@mail.mil"
                  scope="external">
               <u>PS842,
Cost and Pricing Branch</u>
            </xref>
            <u>.</u> A UCA Tracking Number shall
be obtained from <xref format="html"
                  href="mailto:disa.meade.PLD.mbx.pl21-policy-branch@mail.mil"
                  scope="external">
               <u>PS21,
Contract Policy Branch</u>
            </xref>

            <u>.</u> A compliance review of the
final negotiated agreement shall be obtained from the <xref format="html"
                  href="mailto:disa.meade.PLD.mbx.pl22-policy-compliance-review@mail.mil"
                  scope="external">
               <u>PS22,
Contract Operations Branch</u>
            </xref> prior to definitization.</p>
        <p>(S-92) <i>Management Plan (D&amp;F)</i>. All UCAs are required
to adhere to the ‘Consolidated UCA Management Plan’
required by DFARS PGI 217.7405(2)(i). Before entering into any UCA,
Contracting Officers shall obtain HCA approval (see DARS
5817.7404-1). Prior to definitization, Contracting Officers shall
satisfy the requirements of the UCA Management Plan by executing a
D&amp;F for HCA approval, (which shall be maintained in the
contract file. The D&amp;F template is located in DARS PGI
5817.7405(S-91).</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
